1. The Set-Up-To-Fail Syndrome

The Set-Up-To-Fail Syndrome article by Harvard Business Review touches on issues that I have experienced in multiple business relationships. The dynamic between a supervisor and a subordinate is very complex and, as discussed in this article, is easily upset by miscommunication and personal issues that are brought into the relationship. I don’t believe supervisors intentionally set out to sabotage their subordinates’ self-confidence and work ethic, anymore than subordinates sets out to sabotage their supervisor’s confidence and trust in them. I believe that, almost exclusively, both supervisors and subordinates understand the importance of maintaining a good working relationship, and I do not believe that either act out of ill-will. 

I believe that the general issues that contribute to breakdown in business relationships are the same that contribute to breakdown in any type of relationship. The issues described in the article stemmed most clearly from miscommunication and personal factors. Miscommunication can be damaging in all forms of relationship, but especially when one individual has a higher position or perceived status than another. I believe it is very important yet very difficult to balance authority and equality in the workplace. In the article’s example scenarios, the cause of the breakdown was not ill-will, but simply miscommunicated expectations. A supervisor may expect a subordinate to perform tasks without needing to understand the reasoning, and from an authoritative perspective this is understandable. I believe people see thier motives as being good and when in a position of authority may feel that their subordinates should trust that their motives are good. Why would they issue a request that wasn't good or didn't have purpose? But in the case of Jeff and Steve, the article’s insight into Steve’s thoughts suggests that he may have been more compliant had he understood Jeff’s objectives and motives better. While Jeff's intentions were good and were for both of their benefit, Steve mistakenly came to the assumption that Jeff's motives were distrusting and controlling. Although Jeff was in a higher position than Steve, better communication would have ensured that both had equal understanding of the situation.

If miscommunication is a major cause of relationship breakdown, personal factors often determine the reactions to the breakdown. A bad experience with supervision or a previous external relationship with a parent or mentor could influence whether an individual resists leadership, struggles in the absence of affirmation, or retracts inward and becomes distant. Personal experiences may influence whether the subordinate asks for clarification or draws assumptions and conclusions that further cause distance in the relationship. And they may impact a supervisor’s tendency to increase tighter control or develop favoritism toward certain subordinates. It is natural for personal factors to be brought unintentionally into a relationship, often because the individual has not processed or even noticed them. Personal experiences and beliefs contribute to miscommunication at the same time that they influence the course of action of those involved, and because of this, I believe the causes behind most situations are too complex to assign fault. Regardless, assigning fault usually is not productive to actually resolving an issue, which should be the goal. Both sides involved are responsible for attending to their own reactions before deflecting onto the other party. Acceptance of individual responsibility makes it easier to resolve the problem, but one of those involved must still initiate the resolution of the breakdown, and I believe it is the responsibility of the supervisor to make a reasonable attempt to address any tension in a business relationship. A supervisor accepts responsibility for leading their subordinates when they take on a leadership role. And initiating resolution of misunderstanding and tension is part of leading. Neither party may be at fault for the cause of the situation, but unchecked continuation and growth of the issue, especially over the lengths of time described in the article’s examples, is the responsibility of the supervisor.


2. How do tech's biggest companies fare on diversity?

A. Diversity in Tech

The statistics presented in the diversity article surprised me in a few ways. First, while there is certainly a large gender gap in all companies, it is actually a smaller gap than I expected. Women represent 47% of the national workforce but only about half as much, around 25%, in these companies' representation of the tech sector. This is, interestingly,  very similar to the gender ratio in our class. However, I also feel that I encounter far fewer women with a high level of interest  and skill in technology than I do men. That very well could be because of my limited experience, but regardless, I cannot compare my experience with the article's statistics because it seems that the statistics are flawed. I believe the charts would be much more useful if they took into account career fields rather than simply the employers. Amazon may indeed employ more women than the other companies, but many of those women could be doing work that is essentially unrelated to technology. All of these companies require a solid infrastructure of human resources, accounting, logistics, customer service, and several other fields that are universal to large business needs. It is difficult to get any meaningful understanding from these charts about the percentage of women and minorities who are actually performing technology-related jobs.

I was also surprised when comparing the racial representation in the tech sector to the total US population by race/ethnicity revealed that, statistically, whites do not seem to be unfairly represented. Whites comprise about 64% of the total US population and about 60% of these tech companies. That is much higher than any of the other races/ethnicities, but I would expect it to be. A quick Google search revealed that there is a widely-held belief that whites are unfairly represented in technology (and ironically much of this is directed toward Google itself), but I believe that lowering the percentage of whites would not meaningfully address the gap. I certainly support diversity in the workplace in general, and especially in the tech sector, but it would make sense statistically that the general racial distribution in the workforce would mirror that of the total US population. If 60 out of 100 marbles in a jar were red, then it would be reasonable to expect that about 60% of marbles blindly drawn from the jar would be red. I am sure that the hiring strategies of employers are much more biased than a blind drawing, but if so then I would expect white employment in the tech industry to be even higher. I think the more interesting statistic lies in the distribution among non-white tech employees. Hispanics and blacks are much more underrepresented. The imbalance lies in the much higher than average Asian representation. Asians constitute about 30% of the tech sector yet only 4.6% of the general population. The reasoning behind this is expansive, contested, politically and culturally charged, but I believe it partly has to do with the number of skilled Asian workers emigrating to the US versus the number of unskilled Hispanics and blacks that are born in the US. Education in Asian countries is often of higher quality, its importance is more greatly stressed, and students are better prepared. Competition, especially for tech careers, is also much greater. Conversely, the education system in the US has a reputation for underserving low-income groups, especially blacks and Hispanics. Less importance is placed on higher education, and students are generally asked to meet lower expectations. These are just a few *highly simplified* factors that contribute to the divide among non-white ethnicities in the technology sector. So perhaps the answer is not reducing white representation but to increase black, Hispanic, and other representation by better equipping them for success in the tech industry. Employers should hire based more on skill than cultural and personal factors, and potential employees should be skilled and prepared to contribute to the workplace.

B. Diversity in Leadership

The tech industry leadership statistics are much more telling. White men clearly have the advantage. Where the male/female ratio in the general tech workforce was around 70/30, it is closer to 80/20 in leadership roles. Whites also comprise closer to 75% of leadership, opposed to about 60% of the general tech workforce. I expect these numbers to change some as the technology industry grows and ages, but the current divide is not very surprising. It takes time to work up the corporate ladder into a leadership position. 30 years ago, the gender and ethnic makeup of the technology industry likely looked a lot different and had greater white representation. 30 years later, that same ethnic divide has remained, just worked its way up the ladder. But a newer, younger, and more diverse workforce is filling in behind those who are moving up, and hopefully in another 30 years they'll have brought that same ethnic representation up the ladder along with them.

I've aspired to be part of a few different communities, and especially the programming community, for a long time, and seeing people I identify as leaders in their profession is very important to me. First, leaders in a given profession give a face to the field and make it seem more accessible. If I were to try to become familiar with the Ruby community, it would be difficult to know where to start, where to focus my attention, and whom to follow. But reading and seeing work by Yukihiro Matsumoto and _why show me what the Ruby community and culture means to them and why they chose to become a part of it. They reinforce my enthusiasm for and interest in their field. Similarly, the romance and excitement of the racing careers of Enzo Ferrari, Gioacchino Colombo, and the Alfa Romeo and Ferrari teams of the 1950s and 1960s catalyzed my interest in the automotive community. It is also important to me to see the humble beginnings of these individuals, because success most often is not handed down but rather is built up by normal individuals with dreams and drive to achieve their goals. Looking at an entire industry as a whole is intimidating; looking at one person who followed their own interests as far as they could go is inspiring. 


3. The Other Side of Diversity
4. 
Baker's essay provided some insight into a business world that I do not have much experience with. The most remarkable part about her story, in my opinion, is that her difficulties were not in getting hired, as I'd expected, but rather what she faced after she was hired. I do not blame the companies directly for the workplace issues she experienced, as she was hired and given opportunity. Baker addresses a few distinct causes for her feeling of rejection in the workplace. One of these causes was the the discrimination and alienation she experienced as a black woman. It is of course unfortunate that racial sterotypes still exist today, But I feel that this is more a general problem with people's perceptions than with the industry specifically, and it is issue that extends much further and deeper than workplace relationships. The problem is that while Baker's article sets out to discuss workplace diversity, much of her recollections address a deeper question of integration in the workplace - how do individuals with different backgrounds, interests, and characters integrate and create belonging? 

Baker did experience racial and perhaps gender discrimination in the workplace, in more and less direct ways. But a lot of the feelings she describes seem to stem from her inability to connect with people with different interests as well. Baker describes trying to assimilate by adopting a negative attitude and brushing off sexism and racism, none of which have a place anywhere, especially in a professional setting. But she also tries to assimilate by dressing the same, going to the same bars, listening to the same music, and playing the same video games as her coworkers. Feeling different and alone because of one's skin color is much different than because of one's personal interests and preferences, and this is the heart of the issue that I read about in her essay. It is a difficult topic to navigate, because it addresses the core of how people connect and bond. People are certainly fallible in their inclusiveness and will naturally create personal preconceptions and bias. That is the responsibility of society as a whole to address. But does an industry mold exist, and how much does it develop naturally? Certain industries, including the technology industry, tend to attract people with certain specific interests, preferences and backgrounds, and coworkers develop closer friendships and circles with some more than others. I believe this is healthy and even necessary, and many companies and industries form around these connections. And this is a function of society that is not unique to the workplace. So does a new employee change their preferences and interests to match those of their coworkers, or do they maintain their individuality and feel ostracized? Do long-time employees and group members restrict bonding over their interests to help new employees feel more included? There are no clear answers.

Having been on both the outside and the inside of the "circle," I feel that both sides share responsibility in addressing acceptance, in general and in the workplace. First, I believe that the person on the outside does bear some of the responsibility of feeling accepted. There is a mental block which I sometimes impose on myself when I feel that I am the new person or odd one out in a group of unfamiliar people. This mental block prevents me from connecting with and even participating in the group. I do not believe I am unique in imposing this mental block. How I see myself and my belonging in a particular group or place certainly affects my behavior and the impressions that I create. It is my own lack of self-confidence and assurance, and often a big dose of imposter syndrome, that underlie my mental block. And it is in large part my responsibility to take those feelings captive and include myself in the group. However, it is also the responsibility of each individual in a group to be inclusive. For me, this means less focus on my own interests and preferences and more on finding common interests and preferences with another person. But how do individuals with potentially vastly different backgrounds and interests find commonalities and create belonging? Baker addresses diversity in the technology industry by wanting to be herself in the workplace, but then marking herself as being 'different' and struggling when she lacks connection with her coworkers. She is looking for acceptance among a black community, as if Battlefield and messenger bags are only for white people. I acknowledge that an unfortunate racial imbalance exists in the technology industry, but I do not feel that ethnicity or cultural background should be the foundation of belonging, especially in the workplace. It is my responsibility to identify commonalities with others around me simply as human beings, and it is their mutual responsibility to do the same. If this simple embrace of each other's humanity were universal, of course there would be no issues with new employees fitting the mold of an industry or company they are entering. This is a lot to expect, and companies cannot and should not force their employees' interests or personal connections. But there is another commonality shared among coworkers both new and old, an important connection that companies can foster among employees - the purpose and goals that employees share in working together. History proves that a common purpose is more unifying and powerful than common interests, preferences, and even common cultures and languages. If the industry mold were more about unity in purpose, vision, dedication, and talent, then perhaps a sense of belonging and inclusion among employees would be inherent rather than enforced.


4. Is Blind Hiring the Best Hiring?

Blind hiring is not a sufficient solution to addressing industry bias, but it may be the most efficient option. It would be preferable to eliminate the preconceptions and stereotypes that lead to hiring bias, but that is a deep social issue that lies beyond the purpose of the article. If the personal persuasions of employers cannot be directly changed to encourage unbiased hiring, then blind hiring seems like the next best option. While fit and culture are important and complex factors in the workplace, the skills and the ability of a potential employee to benefit the company should be the greatest concerns of an employer. Blind hiring seems to be a reasonable way to at least reduce the bias that prevents candidates from getting interviews. There is, however, a downside to blind hiring. A candidate may be chosen for an interview, but the interview still gives the employer the opportunity to draw misconceptions and stereotypes that could hinder the candidate's employment. They may be anonymous during the initial screening, but their gender, ethnicity, and resumes will still be subject to bias when they walk in the door. Still, blind hiring seems like a more effective way to address diverse hiring than an enforced process such as affirmative action, which still draws more attention to a candidate's ethnicity and socioeconomic status than to their skills and abilities. The problem with affirmative action, and indeed with both approaches, is that they address symptoms rather than causes. But since an unbiased hiring process is so difficult to acheive, I agree with the article that software provides the closest solution. 










